# error-code-1603

What is a Java Error 1603?

This is a Windows Installer (MSI) error that simply means “Fatal error during installation”. This error usually means that “something the installer expected wasn’t available” or “Something exists that the installer didn’t expect”.

There are a number of reasons why 1603 is thrown. Rather than try to go into all the different reasons why this could happen (the number of reasons are too voluminous for a simple blog) I will quickly mention a few and then show you a great way to overcome this problem when it comes to Java. So pour a Guinness and listen (read) up.
Possible reasons for a Java Error 1603

    A required installation file is missing such as the data1.cab file if you are installing using the extracted MSI in Java 7. (Java 8 no longer uses a separate .cab file as all the necessary files are embedded in the actual MSI).

        If you are deploying Java then an AV solution may delete the included files thus causing the installer to throw a 1603.

    There are remnants of a previous Java installation.

        When Java is installed (by default) it attempts to uninstall previous updates in the same family. e.g. Installing Java 7 Update 71 will uninstall Java 7 Update 67, but not Java 6 or Java 8.

        The Java Update did not complete: Sometimes previous updates are not completely uninstalled. When this happens a 1603 error can occur when the new version tries to install.

        Sometimes the only remnant (that can still cause a failure) is a stray registry key!

    Java is currently being used when the installation begins. This is fairly common when you attempt to deploy the jre-7uxx-windowsxx.exe and the target computer is running Java in a browser.

    You are attempting to deploy the online Java exe. If you are deploying the EXE (and not the extracted MSI) then it is imperative that you only install the offline version. A quick way to tell is if your install file contains the letters “iftw” in the name. (e.g. jre-8u11-windows-i586-iftw.exe). Iftw means “Install From The Web”. This file is very small (usually < 2 MB). NEVER deploy this file. First of all the online version usually includes the Ask Toolbar which we all know really, really sucks and is actually worse than any 1603 error you’ll ever run into. Just grab the offline file from Java, or better yet just use the Java packages from the PDQ Deploy Package Library. This link will take you the latest Java offline downloads for Java 8.

Resolving Java Error 1603

OK, those are some common reasons. Now here is the easy way to get around these problems.

Use PDQ Deploy to install Java on your Windows’ computers. 

🔥🔥 click download to get started and follow the step-by-step process 👉👉

Some information regarding the installation of Java on non-English versions of Windows and how beat particular 1603 error is included 👀👉 HERE.

During the installation of a software product on any version of Windows, the software installer sometimes fails to run, and you may receive the following error message:

“Error 1603: A fatal error occurred during installation“

The error 1603 is a generic error code generated by Microsoft Windows Installer (MSI) that indicates a problem during the installation. This error is more likely to be system-related than software-specific.
You may receive this error due to one of the following factors:

    Short file name creation is disabled on the target computer system

    Corrupted Microsoft Visual C++ redistributable files

    Antivirus/Firewall settings are blocking the installation

    Windows TEMP folders are full

    Not enough disk space

A full list of error 1603 causes and fixes can be downloaded here 👉👉


